Bundle segmentation CLI tutorial (#2154)
dipy/dipy: doc/interfaces/bundle_segmentation_flow.rst

.. _bundle_segmentation_flow:

===============================================
White Matter Bundle Extraction with RecoBundles
===============================================

This tutorial explains how we can use RecoBundles [1]_ to extract
bundles from input tractograms.

First we need to download streamline atlas [2]_ with 30 bundles in MNI space from:

    `<https://figshare.com/articles/Atlas_of_30_Human_Brain_Bundles_in_MNI_space/12089652>`_

> Let's say we have an input target tractogram named ``target.trk`` and atlas we

Author: Added link to test data

download named ``whole_brain_MNI.trk``.

Visualizing target and atlas tractograms before registration::

    dipy_horizon "target.trk" "whole_brain_MNI.trk" --random_color

.. figure:: https://github.com/dipy/dipy_data/blob/master/tractograms_initial.png?raw=true
    :width: 70 %
    :alt: alternate text
    :align: center

    Atlas and target tractograms before registration.

------------------------------------
Streamline-Based Linear Registration
------------------------------------

For extracting bundles from tractogram we first need our target tractogram to
be in common space (atlas space). We will register target tractogram to
model atlas’ space using streamline-based linear registeration (SLR) [3]_.

Following workflows require two positional input arguments; ``Static`` and
``Moving`` .trk files. ``Static`` would be the ``atlas``  and ``Moving`` would be
our ``target``  tractogram.

Run the following workflow::

>     dipy_slr "whole_brain_MNI.trk" "target.trk" --force

Reviewer: Hi @arokem, The problem with prompt is that we have a plug-in on Sphinx which replace `$` symbol to `:math: `.  So we have either to find another symbol or update the whole documentation and remove this plugin.

SLR workflow will save transformed tractogram as ``moved.trk``.

Visualizing target and atlas tractograms after registration::

    dipy_horizon "moved.trk" "whole_brain_MNI.trk" --random_color

.. figure:: https://github.com/dipy/dipy_data/blob/master/tractograms_after_registration.png?raw=true
    :width: 70 %
    :alt: alternate text
    :align: center

    Atlas and target tractograms after registration.

-----------
Recobundles
-----------

> Create an ``out_dir`` folder (eg: rb_output)::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an ``out_dir`` folder (e.g., ``rb_output``), into which output will be placed::
```

    mkdir rb_output

> For Recobundles workflow, we will be using 30 model bundles downloaded earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the Recobundles workflow, we will use the 30 model bundles downloaded earlier.
```

Run the following workflow::

    dipy_recobundles "moved.trk" "bundles/*.trk" --force --mix_names --out_dir "rb_output"

This workflow will extract 30 bundles from the tractogram.

> Example of extracted Left Arcuate fasciculus (AF_L) bundle:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example of extracted Left Arcuate fasciculus (AF_L) bundle (visualized with ``dipy_horizon``):
```
And maybe add a link to the horizon tutorial?

.. figure:: https://github.com/dipy/dipy_data/blob/master/AF_L_rb.png?raw=true
    :width: 70 %
    :alt: alternate text
    :align: center

    Extracted Left Arcuate fasciculus (AF_L) from input tractogram

Example of extracted Left Arcuate fasciculus (AF_L) bundle visualized along

> model AF_L bundle used as reference in RecoBundles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the model AF_L bundle used as reference in RecoBundles:
```

.. figure:: https://github.com/dipy/dipy_data/blob/master/AF_L_rb_with_model.png?raw=true
    :width: 70 %
    :alt: alternate text
    :align: center

>     Extracted Left Arcuate fasciculus (AF_L) in Pink and model AF_L bundle in green color.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Extracted Left Arcuate fasciculus (AF_L) in pink and model AF_L bundle in green color.
```

> Output of recobundles will be in native space. To get bundles in subject's

Reviewer 2: Recobundles is inconsistently capitalized. Should it always be "Recobundles" or always "recobundles", @Garyfallidis ?

Author: Updated document to have `Recobundles` everywhere to be consistent.

original space, run following commands::

    mkdir org_output

    dipy_labelsbundles 'target.trk' 'rb_output/*.npy' --mix_names --out_dir "org_output"

For more information about each command line, you can go to

> `<https://github.com/dipy/dipy/blob/master/dipy/workflows/segment.py>`_

Reviewer 2: Maybe link to the website instead of directly to the code? This will probably be intimidating for most users.

> If you are using any of these commands do cite the relevant papers and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using any of these commands please be sure to cite the relevant papers and
```

DIPY [4]_.

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add a sub-title "References " before the bibliography section.
